Highlights generated by Podium.page
Help us spread the word by tweeting about us at @PodiumDotPage and including us in your show notes! https://podium.page

--------- HIGHLIGHTS ---------

0:01:09 - Popular Idea From Atomic Habits Book (112 Seconds)
0:04:56 - Power of Habits Shaping Identity (81 Seconds)
0:06:18 - The Power of Taking Small Actions (144 Seconds)
0:16:45 - Commitment Factors for the Gym (90 Seconds)
0:22:57 - Importance of Friendships in Gym Memberships (59 Seconds)
0:32:08 - The Power of Socially Reinforced Habits (74 Seconds)
0:34:48 - Navigating Decisive Moments and Choices (123 Seconds)
0:45:39 - The Power of Positive Reinforcement (57 Seconds)
0:55:21 - The Process of Habit Change (83 Seconds)
0:57:47 - Impact of Atomic Habits on Life (110 Seconds)


--------- HIGHLIGHTS WITH TRANSCRIPT ---------

* Popular Idea From Atomic Habits Book | 0:01:09 - 0:03:02 (112 Seconds)

0:01:09 Speaker 2
The book, your book's been out for a while. It's right here Atomic Habits, if you see it in an airport or something near you. How long has it been out now?  

0:01:20 Speaker 3
Today is 100 days exactly.  

0:01:22 Speaker 2
No way.  

0:01:24 Speaker 3
Yeah, so just over three months.  

0:01:26 Speaker 2
I'm curious, because now it's been out for a while Is there one idea that you see that people keep sharing, like one idea that resonated from the book in particular, that gets shared more than anything else on Twitter or whatever?  

0:01:45 Speaker 3
So I was curious about that myself when I was writing the book and thinking about it, because I kind of felt like, all right, hopefully all these ideas are useful, but what's the one thing that people are going to latch on to? Because sometimes you'll hear that from authors that there was one chapter or something that was the chapter that really stuck with people. I'm grateful for the fact that there are a variety of things, but there are a few things. So the first one is identity-based habits, which is chapter two, and that concept really seems to have resonated with people, the idea of trying to reinforce your desired identity and kind of starting with who you want to become rather than what you want to achieve. And I'm glad that it did, because that was the chapter I debated over the most of where to put it in the book. I had it at different points. It was the first chapter, it was the last chapter, it ended up being the second one. I also had this thought in my head that it should be about midway through the book, so it really jumped all over the place. But I ended up thinking I feel like this is one of the best ideas. So I want to have it early, so that people, even if they don't finish the book, they still come across this idea, and I'm glad that that ended up working out well.  

----------------------------------------------

* Power of Habits Shaping Identity | 0:04:56 - 0:06:17 (81 Seconds)

0:04:56 Speaker 3
And so I like that idea that our habits are like votes for the type of person we believe that we are, that they build up evidence of looking at ourselves in a certain way, and I like to phrase it that way, not only because I believe that it's true, but also beliefs and behavior are kind of a two-way street. So you'll hear people say things like well, just be positive, or just believe in yourself, or fake it till you make it, or things like that. And there's nothing necessarily wrong with fake it till you make it. It's fine to be positive and believe things about yourself, but it's a very short-term strategy, because fake it till you make it is asking you to believe something about yourself without having evidence for it. It's like that kind of visualization stuff or mantra stuff where you look at yourself in the mirror and you tell yourself I am a writer, I am a writer even though you haven't written yet. And so what I'm saying is similar but, I think, importantly different, in the sense that you let the behavior lead the way rather than the belief. And I think that's the best lever we have for changing the way that we look at ourselves, which is to say, show up and write a sentence every day, and soon you're going to have something to root that new identity of I am a writer in, and it's a much more, I think, robust and long-term way of changing how you look at yourself.  

----------------------------------------------

* The Power of Taking Small Actions | 0:06:18 - 0:08:42 (144 Seconds)

0:06:18 Speaker 2
Yeah, I think for me the, because you first communicated that idea to me in an airport in Denver.  

0:06:28 Speaker 3
Yeah, I remember that.  

0:06:30 Speaker 2
And at the time in my life I was not doing so good, I was depressed, I was, I think, cynical, especially. I think cynical about people like you that seem to have it all together, that seem to be really like doing all the good habits, and when you're not doing so good, looking at someone that seems to have it all together just can make you more grumpy or more cynical or more whatever. But I remember you sitting down and kind of hashing this out with me and that idea of Justin, no matter where you're at right now and no matter what you've done, you could start today with one action. So if you go running today, that might not make a big difference. But then, if you do it tomorrow and then the next day and then the next day and then the next day, at the end of the week you might say, well, wait a second, I think I'm a runner, right. And maybe after a couple of weeks you might say, well, I'm going to get myself some runner clothes and go and get some runner clothes, and then I'm going to get myself a good pair of shoot, I'm going to install that Strava app and all of a sudden you could see yourself. That was a really hopeful message for me. When I was really struggling to figure out it was way easier for me to be cynical and just kind of look back at all these people implementing good, healthy processes and say, well, that's not for me, that's just for people that, whatever you know. But seeing, hearing that gave me hope to think you know, I could do that I could, and it's surprising how little time it takes to, you know, accomplish that. Is that something? Have other people been kind of referencing that too? Is that part of the? And maybe that's what's so good about having it as chapter two, because it gives me some hope, right.  

0:08:36 Speaker 3
Well, what's interesting is that that process of changing in that way it's happening anyway, you know.  

----------------------------------------------

* Commitment Factors for the Gym | 0:16:45 - 0:18:15 (90 Seconds)

0:16:45 Speaker 3
But what you realize is he was mastering the art of showing up right. He was becoming the type of person that drove to the gym every day and when you're in that state, right. For him, at that point, that was the biggest shift was can I just become the type of person who gets in here right, who overcomes the uncertainty or feeling uncomfortable or feeling judged, and all those things are very real hurdles to building a habit. You know, like there's, there are all these little questions that need to be answered for something like that, like, okay, I want to go to the gym. Well, what time am I going to go? Am I going to go before work or after work? What gym will I go to? What route am I going to take to get there? Do I need to bring a water bottle, or is there like a water fountain at the gym? And all those little questions like that, like you know, whether or not you, there's a water fountain at the gym. It sounds small. But if you already feel uncomfortable and feel like you don't belong and then you always forget to bring your water bottle and you're like, oh, there's nothing ever and there's never anything to drink there, that's enough friction to get you to quit in the beginning. So starting with something simple, like all I'm going to do is I'm going to show up and I'm going to do one exercise for five minutes and then I'm going to go, that, I think, is a good way to start, and it reminds me of what Steven Pressfield wrote I think it was in the War of Art where he said something to the effect of like, if you sit down each day at the computer and you do your writing at some point, at first it feels uncomfortable, but at some point that becomes your territory. And I really like that phrasing of it, because for an  

----------------------------------------------

* Importance of Friendships in Gym Memberships | 0:22:57 - 0:23:56 (59 Seconds)

0:22:57 Speaker 3
There was a a study that I wanted to cite in atomic habits but I couldn't I couldn't find it to track it down, but I read about it years ago where the YMCA ran a survey and when they surveyed people who were joining the gym, the thing that got them to join were the different classes offered, the equipment that was in the gym. Basically facilities and features were the things that got people in for the first time. But then when they surveyed members who had been there for over a year, the thing that got people to stick nobody mentioned features or facilities, everybody mentioned friendships, and so the people who actually stayed at the gym or kept their membership were the ones who ended up developing friendships with other people there. And I think you're right. Ultimately, the thing that gets you to come back is like do I enjoy coming here? Does it mean I get to see some of my friends? Does it mean I get to hang out with people I like, or you know, it's really the sense of belonging that gets habits to stick, and the action itself is just kind of like something that's happening along the way.  

----------------------------------------------

* The Power of Socially Reinforced Habits | 0:32:08 - 0:33:22 (74 Seconds)

0:32:08 Speaker 3
And there are really almost an infinite range of examples that are like that, both large and small. Where our habits are. We notice them because the people around us are doing them, which is what the Q portion is you referenced. We desire to do them, we crave to follow through on them, because by doing the same, we fit in or signal to the other people around us hey, I get it, I'm part of the tribe too. It becomes easier to do it because sometimes you have friends helping you out. It's like having a spotter at the gym Like, oh, people like us help each other out when a set is hard, and then ultimately it becomes satisfying because you enjoy being praised for it. Other people are like hey, it was great to see you at church on Sunday, or really good job on that workout today, and that feels good to be praised for fitting in. And so, in that way, socially reinforced habits or the collective identity it hits all four stages of habit formation and I knew that when I was writing it, but I don't think I gave it as much importance as I should have. It's a very powerful driver of behavior in the long run.  

0:33:22 Speaker 2
Yeah, totally.  

----------------------------------------------

* Navigating Decisive Moments and Choices | 0:34:48 - 0:36:51 (123 Seconds)

0:34:48 Speaker 2
The other thing in the book that really helped me and I'm probably going to butcher it. So you clean up after I do it, but you show this grid. So imagine, on this side of your day it's like, ok, I make a good decision, so it goes up, and then I make another good decision, goes up, but then I make a bad decision. I eat a tub of ice cream, and sometimes eating the tub of ice cream is debilitating. It's like, well, I'm done, I ate the tub of ice cream, I suck at this, I'm just going to go again into bed and forget about it. And in your grid you show wait, but you're still up here. You can just make another good decision and then you're back up again and I like that idea of kind of navigating your ideas, not being so hard on ourselves. Did I kind of get that right?  

0:35:38 Speaker 3
Yeah, so this is the. I don't know if you can see it, but this is the image. Oh, yeah, yeah. It's a. It's this idea that, like, the difference between a good day and a bad day is often just a series of choices, right, yeah, and you can win each little moment. Right, you can win each decisive moment. Just because you ate the tub of ice cream doesn't mean you can't win the next moment. Yes, and so one thing that I was thinking about when I wrote that is this concept that I call decisive moments, this idea that there are a few choices each day, maybe somewhere between, say, five and ten, that kind of determine the next chunk of time. And so, for example, there's a moment for me each morning where I sit down and either I open up Evernote and I start writing the next start I'll call I'm going to work on, or I go to ESPN and I check the latest sports news, and what happens in the next hour is really determined by what happens in, like, the first 45 seconds. Yes, like do I go to Evernote or do I go to ESPN, and so that is a decisive moment. In my language, that's like a moment that determines if I can master those 45 seconds. Then I can end up mastering the next hour that comes afterward almost automatically.  

----------------------------------------------

* The Power of Positive Reinforcement | 0:45:39 - 0:46:37 (57 Seconds)

0:45:39 Speaker 3
So now all of a sudden you start to associate going to the gym with feeling good. And this is a really long game play because it takes a while for that to reinforce itself. But you know, same thing, like the introverted kid at the table sits down and they say something that happened today and it's like oh, that's awesome, thanks for sharing that with us. You know, I'm like on that individual night, that one night at dinner doesn't count for a lot, but if every time they speak up they're rewarded for it, then all of a sudden now they have a reason to start doing that more in the months and years to come. So it takes a while, but I think that that's like an effective way to gradually nudge people in the right direction.  

0:46:19 Speaker 2
Yeah, there's someone in the chat that's saying they need to apply that idea to themselves to avoid feeling guilty for not doing enough. So, instead of reinforced. Oh you idiot. You didn't go to the gym again, you fatty. You know like that's not helpful. There's the self talk. It can work with self talk as well.  

----------------------------------------------

* The Process of Habit Change | 0:55:21 - 0:56:44 (83 Seconds)

0:55:21 Speaker 3
And I like to equate it to the process of heating up an ice cube. You know, so you've got. You've got this ice cube sitting on a table, right, and so let's say it's like negative three degrees in there, right, so you're a negative three, it's cold, you can see your breath, the ice cube's sitting there. You heated up negative two, negative one. Still there's this ice cube sitting there. Nothing has happened, right? Then you go from negative one to zero and all of a sudden you have this one degree shift, no different than any of the other shifts that came before it, but you have this phase transition, right, and like, the ice cube starts melting, and that, I think, is indicative of what it often feels like to change a habit. You're making these little improvements, you're trying to make these 1% changes, these one degree shifts, each day, and you're like it's really easy to get frustrated or even depressed at that point. You know it's like I've been running for three weeks. How come I can't see a change in my body? Yeah, I've been blog post for six months now. How come this site isn't popular yet? And the key point there is your work was not being wasted, it's just being stored. Complaining about sticking to a habit for two months or three months, or even six months or a year and not having the outcome that you want is kind of like complaining about heating ice cube from negative three to negative one degrees and not melting it. You know, like the work was not wasted, it's just being stored.  

----------------------------------------------

* Impact of Atomic Habits on Life | 0:57:47 - 0:59:36 (110 Seconds)

0:57:47 Speaker 2
Yeah, and that image has been so powerful in my life, the real, like I've been telling people about this book and I actually noticed there's kind of like a coffee shop test, like if I hear people talking about something from internet culture in a coffee shop like real people then something's hit and atomic habits is like that, like it hit the kind of mainstream and that image of just raising the temperature a little bit every day. Now I feel like I'm a few months into this and I'm a little bit kind of like evangelical about it. Like I'm saying, now I'm like God, like my life is so much better and it's because of just these little changes over time in the same direction. Now I can see it. Now I can see that I feel better. You know, wow, man, quitting alcohol, that was one thing. And then, wow, showing up at the gym three or four times a week, that really helps. And wow, like reading a real book every night before I go to bed. All of these things keep kind of adding up and do make a meaningful difference in your life, even though way back when, when you're starting, you feel like, well, nothing's going to help me, now it's. I want to be clear that these ideas have meaningfully impacted my life. So I'm yeah, I'm really thankful. I'm thankful you wrote that book, I'm thankful you, you talked to me in the airport. It's been really great for me.  

0:59:26 Speaker 3
That's awesome. Thank you so much for sharing that, and ultimately, that's what the whole thing is for, right? I mean it just it makes it feel like it was worth the effort to spend a few years writing it and working on it, so that's great.  

----------------------------------------------

Highlights created by https://podium.page
